[IMP] accounting: improved bank reconciliation page (#2172)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/bank/reconciliation/bank_reconciliation.rst

   or an invoice as :guilabel:`Paid` when registering a payment.

.. image:: use_cases/payment-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The two different payment status ribbon.

Entries can be reconciled either manually or automatically, depending on your needs. If you wish to
automate your reconciliation process, you can refer to
:doc:`the documentation on reconciliation models <reconciliation_models>`.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../feeds/bank_synchronization`
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Customer and Vendor Payments
     <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/customer-and-vendor-payments-1690?fullscreen=1>`_.

.. note::
   If you wish, you can :ref:`bypass the "In Payment" status <bypass-in-payment>`.

Payment registration
====================

If you have received a payment confirmation from your customer, or if you have made a payment to one
of your vendors, click on :guilabel:`Register Payment` from within the related invoice or bill. Once
you click, a pop-up window appears prompting you to input the payment method and other
payment-related information. When done, click :guilabel:`Create Payment`. The payment status of the

> document then changes to :guilabel:`In Payment`.

Reviewer: Still not ...

===========================

> Reconciling bank statements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reconciling bank statements
```
We usually avoid 'verb+ing' headings. Maybe simply 'Bank statements'? Since it's under the 'Bank reconciliation' page, it's maybe not needed to mention reconciliation again.

.. note::
   If you wish, you can :ref:`bypass the "In Payment" status <bypass-in-payment>`.

Payment registration
====================

If you have received a payment confirmation from your customer, or if you have made a payment to one
of your vendors, click on :guilabel:`Register Payment` from within the related invoice or bill. Once
you click, a pop-up window appears prompting you to input the payment method and other
payment-related information. When done, click :guilabel:`Create Payment`. The payment status of the
document then changes to :guilabel:`In Payment`.

Bank statement matching
=======================

When the payment is registered, you must now match it with its corresponding bank statement. Head to
:menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Bank journal`, and create a new bank statement. If you have
synchronized your Odoo instance with your bank account, select the imported bank statement that
matches your invoice or bill.

Once the bank statement filled-in, click on :guilabel:`Post` and then :guilabel:`Reconcile`. On the
reconciliation page, you have to match the payment with the corresponding bank statement. Odoo

> automatically suggests matches based on the :guilabel:`Label, Partner, and Amount` fields entered
> upon the creation or import of the bank statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically suggests matches based on the :guilabel:`Label`, :guilabel:`Partner`, and :guilabel:`Amount` fields entered
upon the creation or import of the bank statement.
```

   the same name in the :guilabel:`Customer` field, Odoo will automatically suggest a reconciliation
   between the two entries.

If no matches are suggested or if the match does not correspond with its counterpart entry, you can
always change the partner, or select another payment from the list by clicking on the white line
*(see screenshot below)*.

.. image:: use_cases/reconciliation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The white line for reconciliation.

Finally, click on :guilabel:`Validate` to reconcile both entries. The payment status ribbon now
displays :guilabel:`Paid`.

.. _bypass-in-payment:

"In Payment" status bypass
--------------------------

It is possible to bypass the :guilabel:`In Payment` status of an invoice or bill if needed. Go to
:menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Configuration --> Accounting: Journals`, click on the
:guilabel:`Cash` journal, and enter the :guilabel:`Payments Configuration` tab. Click on
:guilabel:`Edit` and under the :guilabel:`Outgoing Payments` section, change the
:guilabel:`Outstanding Payments Account` field to the *Cash* account. Make sure to :guilabel:`Save`.

> When registering a payment, selecting the *Cash* journal when the pop-up window appears will now
> effectively bypass the :guilabel:`In Payment` status and indicate the :guilabel:`Paid` status ribbon
> on the document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When registering a payment, selecting the *Cash* journal when the pop-up window appears will now
effectively bypass the :guilabel:`In Payment` status and set the document status to :guilabel:`Paid`.
```

===================

> Bank reconciliation

Reviewer 2: So basically, the current bank_reconciliation.rst is found under reconciliation.rst, and both pages share the same H1 heading 'Bank reconciliation'. We should rethink the structure or the headings.

invoice, the status of the document changes to **In Payment** rather than **Paid**. It changes to
**Paid** only once the registered payment has been reconciled with a bank statement. Odoo uses a
transitory account called **suspense account** for unreconciled payments, and automatically changes
the account once matched with a bank statement.

.. note::
   - Versions below V14 do not feature a **suspense account** and therefore directly mark a bill or
     an invoice as **Paid** when registering a payment.

.. image:: use_cases/payment-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The two different payment status ribbon.

Entries can be reconciled either manually or automatically, depending on your needs. If you wish to
automate your reconciliation process, you can refer to `our reconciliation models documentation <htt
ps://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/applications/finance/accounting/bank/reconciliation/reconciliat
ion_models.html>`_.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../feeds/bank_synchronization`
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Customer and Vendor Payments
     <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/customer-and-vendor-payments-1690?fullscreen=1>`_.

.. note::

>    - If you wish, you can :ref:`bypass the "In Payment" status <bypass-in-payment>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you wish, you can :ref:`bypass the "In Payment" status <bypass-in-payment>`.
```
No bullet point

Payment registration
====================

If you have received a payment confirmation from your customer, or if you have made a payment to one
of your vendors, click on :guilabel:`Register Payment` from within the related invoice or bill. Once

> you click, a pop-up window will appear prompting you to input the payment method and other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you click, a pop-up window appears prompting you to input the payment method and other
```
As per the [content guidelines](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/content_guidelines.html#grammatical-tenses), we should use the present tense.

payment-related information. When done, click :guilabel:`Create Payment`. The payment status of the
document then changes to :guilabel:`In Payment`.

Bank statement matching
=======================

When the payment is registered, you must now match it with its corresponding bank statement. Head to
:menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Bank journal`, and create a new bank statement. If you have
synchronized your Odoo instance with your bank account, select the imported bank statement that
matches your invoice or bill.

> Once you have populated the required fields *(Starting and Ending Balance, Journal, Date, Label, and
> amount)*, click on :guilabel:`Post` and then :guilabel:`Reconcile`. On the reconciliation page, you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have populated the required fields *(Starting and Ending Balance, Journal, Date, Label, and
amount)*, click on :guilabel:`Post` and then :guilabel:`Reconcile`. On the reconciliation page, you
```
Just listing the required fields isn't really helpful. I would either explain or remove them.

have to match the payment with the corresponding bank statement. Odoo automatically suggests matches
based on the **Label**, **Partner**, and **Amount** entered upon the creation or import of the bank

> statement.

Reviewer 2: guilabels

.. example::
   - If the bank statement contains *Sarah* in the **Partner** field and the invoice contains the
     same name in the **Customer** field, Odoo will automatically suggest a reconciliation between
     the two entries.

If no matches are suggested or if the match does not correspond with its counterpart entry, you can
always change the partner, or select another payment from the list by clicking on the white line
*(see screenshot below)*.

.. image:: use_cases/reconciliation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The white line for reconciliation.

Finally, click on :guilabel:`Validate` to reconcile both entries. The payment status ribbon now
displays :guilabel:`Paid`.

.. _bypass-in-payment:

"In Payment" status bypass
--------------------------

It is possible to bypass the **In Payment** status of an invoice or bill if needed. Go to
:menuselection:`Accounting Dashboard --> Configuration --> Accounting: Journals`, click on the
:guilabel:`Cash` journal, and enter the :guilabel:`Payments Configuration` tab. Click on
:guilabel:`Edit` and under the *Outgoing Payments* section, change the *Outstanding Payments

> Account* field to the *Cash* account. Make sure to :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 2: Guess what... guilabels 💀

Then, click on the optional column button :guilabel:`⋮`, check
:guilabel:`Outstanding Payments accounts`, and set *Cash* as account in the now-visible
:guilabel:`Outstanding Payments accounts` column. When registering a payment, selecting the *Cash*

> journal when the pop-up window appears will now effectively bypass the **In Payment** status and

Reviewer 2: That's v15 instructions, no?
